# Character Generation Manifesto

I dunno, is manifesto too cute? This is where my head is at with character generation.

## Character Generation Is Play

Character generation is a minigame, and (unless people are using pregens, and people hate pregens), it's the first thing they're doing when they play a TTRPG. That means:

* It should be fun
* Every effort should be expended to make it clear how this minigame affects the main game where you will spending most of your time

And more than anything else, building characters by yourself ("lonely fun" is the old term for this) should both be fun and get you excited to actually play the game.

## Not everyone wants the same thing from character generation

Also, just like regular play, you have different playstyles:

* The character optimizer/min-maxer, who wants to find The Best Build
* The beer and pretzel or casual gamer, who doesn't want to think too much here and just wants to roll up a cool character
* People who primarily want to have character generation be a means of _self-expression_, and pick things primarily for how they match a concept in their head or follow a theme.
* People who fetisize making suboptimal characters. Some of them believe the Stormwind Fallacy that suboptimal characters are better for roleplay. Some want to overcome adversity. Some, I think, want to lower the pressure on themselves to succeed in games by deliberatly coming in with a less powerful character. Some just want to purposfully distance themselves from "munchkin" minmax players.

The success criteria here is that everyone should get what they want _with as little trampling on each other's fun as possible_. What this means to me:

* Casual/beer and pretzel gamers need support through chargen. This could be a Travelleresque "roll to make character" random chargen process, it could be suggested defaults for choices, it could be a strong guide to chargen for each "class." It could be a combination of all of these.
* There shouldn't be "trap" options that are worse than they appear at first glance. It should not take system mastery to avoid making a bad character.
* There should be options that are _better_ than they first look, to reward players who put in the effort to look for them. This is what Mark Rosewater calls "lenticular design."
* An optimized character should be better than a low-effort character, to reward the optimizer. But it should not be so much better that the optimized character overshadows the other players. If a typical character generated by a casual is considered a 100%, min-maxing should top out at, like, 120%, not 200% or 1200%.
* There should be a diversity of character creation options, to allow people to treat chargen as an expressive exercise. This is in contrast to certain kinds of OSR games (memorably called 'diy elfgames' by one blogpost) which have few mechanically-relevant character creation options in an effort to remain simple. Players like feeling mechanically unique, they like expressing themselves, and they like it when mechanics reinforce the fantasy of the character they've chosen to play.
* Just like it's possible to optimize, it should be possible to deliberatly make a worse-than-average character _on purpose_ (although we should avoid making it possible to do so on accident). But to avoid the feeling of someone who brought a character who cannot contribute, we should make this harder to do to extremes than the minmaxed character. If a casual PC is 100% and a minmaxed PC is 120% then the effectiveness of a character that is deliberately below-par should be, like, 90%. They should still be able to contribute to the party.

## Character generation should be a group activity

We should encourage Session 0s, where people make characters together. There should be "hooks" during chargen to synergize your PC with another player's PC, both to maximize group ability and to synergize flavor.